# v4.0.0

Oct 3, 2024

This major release delivers a handful of improvements, refreshed UI, and [Manifest v3](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/migrate/what-is-mv3) compliance.

## Features

- Full customization of visibility and ordering of formats available in the popup

- Ability to include window groupings ("All windows and tabs" button)

- Ability to customize individual copy button visibility

- Availability of key modifiers when copying

  - Hold `Ctrl` or `Cmd` to apply the secondary format

  - Hold `Shift + Ctrl` or `Shift + Cmd` to apply the third format

- More format options

  - **JSON** properties and layout

  - **Link** plaintext fallback

- Configurable keyboard shortcuts for each tab range

- Additional context menu actions to copy a link, image, or video on a page

- Refreshed UI

- Improved keyboard navigation

- Light and dark mode based on OS theme

- [Manifest v3](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/migrate/what-is-mv3) compliance

## Deprecations

### Simple mode

This mode allowed for the extension icon to be single, double, or triple-clicked to copy the current tab, the tabs in the current window, or all tabs, respectively. It also included a corresponding keyboard shortcut that worked similarly.

#### Why remove this?

We made a strategic decision to remove this feature due primarily to very low usage. We'd like to keep the user experience and code lean and focused on the features our users are most actively engaging with.

An additional consideration was that the value of this feature seemed somewhat questionable since the time it takes to move the mouse cursor over the extension icon to click it often significantly exceeds the time it takes for an additional nearby click.

Finally, this interaction paradigm didn't scale well. With the introduction of the "All windows and tabs" range in v4, the potential number of clicks or keyboard shortcut repetitions has been raised to 4. Having to repeat a click or shortcut 4 times to copy tends to be awkward, error-prone, and inefficient.

That said, we understand that some users have developed a preference for this feature. If you are one of these folks, we apologize for the disruption to your workflow.

If speed is your priority, we've added a set of keyboard shortcuts you can configure as desired. See the "Keyboard shortcuts" section in the [usage docs](/docs).

### Tab counts

Copy button labels used to include the count of tabs for their corresponding range. This peripheral information has been removed for simplicity.

We have [plans to bring back counts](/roadmap#option-to-show-tab-count-badges-on-copy-buttons) as optional button badges in a future release.

### Sticky format selections

Previously, format selections in the popup would persist. In v4, the scope of a format selection when copying is limited to the next copy action.

To change the default, secondary, or third format, go to Tab Copy Options and drag formats up or down to reorder them.

### Link token plaintext fallbacks

`link` tokens in custom formats now fall back to URL instead of tab title.

This is somewhat of an edge case distinction since the fallback is only applied when pasting into apps that cannot render clickable links, such as a code editor.

This was changed since a URL is typically more useful than a tab title.

On a related note, the plaintext fallback for the **Link** format can now be customized. It is **URL** by default for new installs and **Title** for those migrating from Tab Copy v3.
